Add v7.2.0 release notes (#13910)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.2.0.md

    通过此功能，用户现在可以使用 Lightning 数据导入工具直接将字符集为 latin1 的源文件导入到 TiDB 中。这扩展了用户在处理各种字符集时的数据导入选项的兼容性和灵活性。以前，导入这样的文件需要额外的预处理或转换。现在用户只需在运行 Lightning 导入过程时指定源文件的字符集。Lightning 工具会在导入过程中自动处理字符集转换，确保数据的完整性和准确性。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/14172/files)

## Compatibility changes

> **注意：**
>
> 以下为从 v7.1.0 升级至当前版本 (v7.2.0) 所需兼容性变更信息。如果从 v7.0.0 或之前版本升级到当前版本，可能也需要考虑和查看中间版本 release notes 中提到的兼容性变更信息。

### Behavior changes

<!-- 此小节包含 MySQL 兼容性变更-->

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

| 变量名  | 修改类型（包括新增/修改/删除）    | 描述 |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery`](/system-variables.md#tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery-从-v610-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 经进一步的测试后，该变量默认值从 `OFF` 修改为 `ON`，即优化器改写会移除子查询中的 `ORDER BY` 子句。 |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| 配置文件 | 配置项 | 修改类型 | 描述 |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |

> |          |          |          |          |

Author: ```suggestion
|          |          |          |          |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].optimize-filters-for-memory</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#optimize-filters-for-memory-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to generate Bloom/Ribbon filters that minimize memory internal fragmentation. |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].ribbon-filter-above-level</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#ribbon-filter-above-level-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to use Ribbon filters for levels greater than or equal to this value and use non-block-based bloom filters for levels less than this value. |
```

|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |
| TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-pairs` | 废弃 | 从 7.2 版本开始 TiDB Lightning 配置文件的参数 "send-kv-pairs" 不再生效，由新的参数 "send-kv-size" 代替。该新参数用于指定 KV 键值对的大小阈值，单位为 KiB 或 MiB，默认值为 "16 KiB"。当 KV 键值对的大小达到设定的阈值时，它们将立即发送到 TiKV，避免在导入大宽表等一些场景因为 Lightning 节点内存积累键值对过多导致 OOM 的问题。**tw@hfxsd** <!--1420--> |
| TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-size` | 新增 | 从 7.2 版本开始在 Lightning 配置文件 "[tikv-importer]" 这个 Session 中引入 `send-kv-size` 参数，用于设置发单次送到 TiKV 的 KV pairs 的大小。当 KV 键值对的大小达到设定的阈值时，它们将被 Lightning 立即发送到 TiKV，避免在导入大宽表的时候 Lightning 节点因为内存积累键值对过多导致 OOM 的问题。通过调整 "send-kv-size" 参数，你可以在内存使用和导入速度之间找到平衡，提高导入过程的稳定性和效率。**tw@hfxsd** <!--1420-->|
| Data Migration | `strict-optimistic-shard-mode` | 新增 | 用于兼容历史版本 2.0 分库分表同步 DDL 的行为。当用户选择乐观模式时，可以启用该参数，开启后，乐观模式下，同步任务遇到二类 DDL 时，整个任务会中断，在多个表的 DDL变更有依赖关系的场景，可以及时中断，用户手动处理完各表的 DDL 后，再继续同步数据，保障上下游数据的一致性。 **tw@ran-huang** <!--1414-->|

## 废弃功能

- note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - 优化构造索引扫描范围的逻辑，支持将一些复杂条件转化为索引扫描范围 [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @xuyifangreeneyes

>     - 支持分区表下推 TopN 算子，减少该情况下 indexLookUp 和 IndexMerge 算子回表次数，提升相关 SQL 执行性能 [#26166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26166) [#41028](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41028)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    * `FIRST_VALUE`
    * `LAST_VALUE`

* TiFlash 支持 pipeline 执行模型（实验特性） [#6518](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6518) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1440-->

    在 v7.2.0 版本之前，TiFlash 引擎中各个任务在执行时，需要自行申请线程资源。TiFlash 引擎通过控制任务数的方式限制线程资源使用，以避免线程资源超用，但是并不能完全避免。在 v7.2.0 版本中，TiFlash 引入 pipeline 执行模型，对所有线程资源进行统一管理，并对所有任务的执行进行统一调度，充分利用线程资源，同时避免资源超用。新增系统变量 [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model) 用于设定是否启用 pipeline 执行模型。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md)。

* 降低 TiFlash 等待 schema 同步的时延 [#7630](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7630) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1361-->

    当表的 schema 变动时，TiFlash 需要及时和 TiKV 同步表的 schema 信息。在 v7.2.0 版本之前，TiFlash 访问表数据时，如果检测到某张表的 schema 变动时，会同步所有表的 schema 信息。即使一张表没有 TiFlash 副本，TiFlash 也会同步该表的 schema 信息。当数据库中有大量表时，读取一张表的数据需要同步所有表的 schema 信息，schema 同步的时延非常高。在 v7.2.0 版本中，TiFlash 优化 schema 同步机制，只同步包含 TiFlash 副本的表的 schema 信息，并且当检测到某张表的 schema 变动时，只同步该表的 schema 信息，降低 TiFlash 同步 schema 的时延。该优化自动生效，不需要任何设定调整。

> * 提升统计信息收集的性能 [#44725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44725) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1352-->
> 
>     v7.2.0 优化了统计信息的收集策略，会选择跳过一部分重复的信息，以及对优化器价值不高的信息，提升统计信息收集的整体速度达 30% 。 这个提升有利于 TiDB 对数据库对象的统计信息进行更及时的更新，使得生成的执行计划更准确， 从而达到提升数据库整体性能的目的。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of statistical information collection [#44725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44725) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1352-->

    TiDB v7.2.0 optimizes the statistics collection strategy, skipping some of the duplicate information and information that is of little value to the optimizer. The overall speed of statistics collection has been improved by up to 30%. This improvement allows TiDB to update the statistics of the database in a more timely manner, making the generated execution plans more accurate and thus improving the overall database performance.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720).
```

* 提升表和索引一致性检查的性能 [#43693](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43693) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw@qiancai** <!--1436-->

    TiDB 在新版本中优化了数据一致性校验的方式，大幅提升了 [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) 的执行效率， 性能提升接近 200 倍。 这个能力可以大幅减少大型表数据一致性检查的时间， 提升运维体验。 设置 [`tidb_enable_fast_table_check`](链接) 为 `TRUE` 启用这个新机制。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)

### Reliability

> * 自动管理资源超出预期的查询 (实验特性) [#43691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43691) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1411-->
> 
>     突发的 SQL 性能问题引发数据库整体性能下降，是数据库稳定性最常见的挑战。 造成 SQL 性能问题的原因有很多， 有可能是未经充分测试的新 SQL，数据量剧烈变化，执行计划突变等等，这些问题很难从源头上完全规避。 TiDB 在 v7.2.0 加入了对资源超出预期的查询的管理能力，在上述问题发生时，能够快速降低影响范围。
> 
>     用户可以针对某个资源组 (Resource Group) 设置查询的最长执行时间。 当查询的执行时间超过设置时， 自动降低查询的优先级或者取消查询。  用户还可以设置在一段时间内通过文本立即匹配已经识别出的查询， 从而避免问题查询的并发度太高时，在识别阶段就造成大量消耗的情况。
> 
>     对资源超出预期查询的自动管理， 为用户提供了有效的手段，快速应对突发的查询性能问题，降低问题对数据库整体性能的影响，从而提升数据库的稳定性。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tidb-resource-control.md###管理Runaway查询)。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatically manage queries that consume more resources than expected (experimental) [#43691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43691) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1411-->

    The most common challenge to database stability is the degradation of overall database performance caused by abrupt SQL performance problems. There are many reasons for SQL performance issues, such as new SQL statements that have not been fully tested, drastic changes in data volume, and abrupt changes in execution plans. These issues are difficult to completely avoid at the root. TiDB v7.2.0 provides the ability to manage queries that consume more resources than expected. This feature can quickly reduce the scope of impact when performance issues occur.
    
    You can set the maximum execution time of a query for a resource group. When the execution time of a query exceeds the setting, the query is automatically deprioritized or cancelled. You can also set a period of time to immediately match identified queries by text, thus avoiding a situation where the concurrency of the problematic query is so high that it consumes more resources than expected during the identification phase.
    
    Automatic management of queries that consume more resources than expected provides you with an effective means to quickly respond to unexpected query performance problems. This feature can reduce the impact of the problem on overall database performance, thereby improving database stability.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries).
```

* 增强对历史执行计划的绑定能力 [#39199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39199) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1349-->

    新版本的 TiDB 对历史执行计划绑定的能力做了进一步增强。 一方面加强了对复杂语句的解析和绑定， 另一方面， 也加入了对新 Hint 的支持，包括 [`AGG_TO_COP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#agg_to_cop)、[`LIMIT_TO_COP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#limit_to_cop)、[`ORDERED_INDEX`](/optimizer-hints.md#order_indext1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name)、[`NO_ORDERED_INDEX()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_order_indext1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name)。 借助这个能力， 从历史执行计划中创建的 [SQL Binding](/sql-plan-management.md#执行计划绑定-sql-binding) 能够更加稳定的固定住执行计划。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/sql-plan-management.md#执行计划绑定-sql-binding)。

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism provides fine-grained control over optimizer behaviors [#43169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43169) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@hfxsd**

    为了生成更合理的执行计划，TiDB 优化器的行为会随产品迭代而不断演进。但在某些特定和极端场景下，这些变化可能引发性能的回退。因此 TiDB 引入了 Optimizer Fix Controls 来控制优化器的一部分细粒度行为，你可以对一些新的变化进行回滚或控制。
    To generate more reasonable execution plans, the behavior of the TiDB optimizer evolves over product iterations. However, in some particular scenarios, the changes might lead to performance regression. TiDB introduces Optimizer Fix Controls to let you control some of the fine-grained behaviors of the optimizer. You can roll back or control some of the new changes.
    
    每一个可控的行为，都有一个与 Fix 号码对应的 Github Issue 进行说明。所有可控的行为列举在文档 [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md) 中。通过设置系统变量 [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_fix_control-从-v710-版本开始引入) 可以为一个或多个行为设置目标值，进而达到行为控制的目的。 
    
    Optimizer Fix Controls 机制加强了用户对 TiDB 优化器的细粒度管控能力，为升级过程引发的性能问题提供了新的修复手段，提升 TiDB 的稳定性。 
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

* Lightning 支持将字符集为 latin1 的源文件导入到 TiDB。[#44434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44434) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@qiancai** <!--1432-->

    通过此功能，用户现在可以使用 Lightning 数据导入工具直接将字符集为 latin1 的源文件导入到 TiDB 中。这扩展了用户在处理各种字符集时的数据导入选项的兼容性和灵活性。以前，导入这样的文件需要额外的预处理或转换。现在用户只需在运行 Lightning 导入过程时指定源文件的字符集。Lightning 工具会在导入过程中自动处理字符集转换，确保数据的完整性和准确性。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/14172/files)

## Compatibility changes

> **注意：**
>
> 以下为从 v7.1.0 升级至当前版本 (v7.2.0) 所需兼容性变更信息。如果从 v7.0.0 或之前版本升级到当前版本，可能也需要考虑和查看中间版本 release notes 中提到的兼容性变更信息。

### Behavior changes

<!-- 此小节包含 MySQL 兼容性变更-->

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

| 变量名  | 修改类型（包括新增/修改/删除）    | 描述 |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery`](/system-variables.md#tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery-new-in-v610) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the optimizer removes the `ORDER BY` clause in a subquery. |

>  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720)      | Newly added |  This variable controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected.   |
```

| [`tidb_expensive_txn_time_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_expensive_txn_time_threshold-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for logging expensive transactions, which is 600 seconds by default. When the duration of a transaction exceeds the threshold, and the transaction is neither committed nor rolled back, it is considered an expensive transaction and will be logged. |
|        |                              |      |

> |        |                              |      |

Reviewer 2: | [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720) | Newly added | This variable is used to control whether to enable the new execution model of TiFlash, the [pipeline model](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md). The default value is `OFF`, which means the pipeline model is disabled. |

| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].ribbon-filter-above-level</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#ribbon-filter-above-level-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to use Ribbon filters for levels greater than or equal to this value and use non-block-based bloom filters for levels less than this value. |
| TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-pairs` | 废弃 | 从 7.2 版本开始 TiDB Lightning 配置文件的参数 "send-kv-pairs" 不再生效，由新的参数 "send-kv-size" 代替。该新参数用于指定 KV 键值对的大小阈值，单位为 KiB 或 MiB，默认值为 "16 KiB"。当 KV 键值对的大小达到设定的阈值时，它们将立即发送到 TiKV，避免在导入大宽表等一些场景因为 Lightning 节点内存积累键值对过多导致 OOM 的问题。**tw@hfxsd** <!--1420--> |
| TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-size` | 新增 | 从 7.2 版本开始在 Lightning 配置文件 "[tikv-importer]" 这个 Session 中引入 `send-kv-size` 参数，用于设置发单次送到 TiKV 的 KV pairs 的大小。当 KV 键值对的大小达到设定的阈值时，它们将被 Lightning 立即发送到 TiKV，避免在导入大宽表的时候 Lightning 节点因为内存积累键值对过多导致 OOM 的问题。通过调整 "send-kv-size" 参数，你可以在内存使用和导入速度之间找到平衡，提高导入过程的稳定性和效率。**tw@hfxsd** <!--1420-->|

> | Data Migration | `strict-optimistic-shard-mode` | 新增 | 用于兼容历史版本 2.0 分库分表同步 DDL 的行为。当用户选择乐观模式时，可以启用该参数，开启后，乐观模式下，同步任务遇到二类 DDL 时，整个任务会中断，在多个表的 DDL变更有依赖关系的场景，可以及时中断，用户手动处理完各表的 DDL 后，再继续同步数据，保障上下游数据的一致性。 **tw@ran-huang** <!--1414-->|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Data Migration | [`strict-optimistic-shard-mode`](/dm/feature-shard-merge-optimistic.md) | Newly added | This configuration item is used to be compatible with the DDL shard merge behavior in TiDB Data Migration v2.0. You can enable this configuration item in optimistic mode. After this is enabled, the replication task will be interrupted when it encounters a Type 2 DDL statement. In scenarios where there are dependencies between DDL changes in multiple tables, a timely interruption can be made. You need to manually process the DDL statements of each table before resuming the replication task to ensure data consistency between the upstream and the downstream. **tw@ran-huang** <!--1414-->|
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<!-- key feature placeholder-->

## Feature details

### Performance

* 新增支持下推两个[窗口函数](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) 至 TiFlash [#7427](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7427)  @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai** <!--1310-->

    * `FIRST_VALUE`
    * `LAST_VALUE`

> * TiFlash 支持 pipeline 执行模型（实验特性） [#6518](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6518) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1440-->
> 
>     在 v7.2.0 版本之前，TiFlash 引擎中各个任务在执行时，需要自行申请线程资源。TiFlash 引擎通过控制任务数的方式限制线程资源使用，以避免线程资源超用，但是并不能完全避免。在 v7.2.0 版本中，TiFlash 引入 pipeline 执行模型，对所有线程资源进行统一管理，并对所有任务的执行进行统一调度，充分利用线程资源，同时避免资源超用。新增系统变量 [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model) 用于设定是否启用 pipeline 执行模型。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TiFlash supports the pipeline execution model (experimental) [#6518](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6518) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1440-->

    Prior to v7.2.0, each task in the TiFlash engine must individually request thread resources during execution. TiFlash controls the number of tasks to limit thread resource usage and prevent overuse, but this issue could not be completely eliminated. To address this problem, starting from v7.2.0, TiFlash introduces a pipeline execution model. This model centrally manages all thread resources and schedules task execution uniformly, maximizing the utilization of thread resources while avoiding resource overuse. To enable or disable the pipeline execution model, modify the [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720) system variable.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md).
```

    
    Each controllable behavior is described by a GitHub issue corresponding to the fix number. All controllable behaviors are listed in [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md). You can set a target value for one or more behaviors by setting the [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_fix_control-new-in-v710) system variable to achieve behavior control. 
    
    The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism helps you control the TiDB optimizer at a granular level. It provides a new means of fixing performance issues caused by the upgrade process and improves the stability of TiDB. 
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

### SQL

* 支持 `CHECK` 约束 [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678] (https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->

    v7.2.0 版本开始，用户可以通过 `CHECK` 约束功能约束表中一个或者多个字段值必须满足特定条件。添加 `CHECK` 约束后，TiDB 会在数据插入或者更新时检查约束条件是否满足，只允许满足约束的数据写入。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### DB operations

> * DDL 任务支持暂停和恢复操作（实验特性）[#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1185-->
> 
>     TiDB v7.2.0 之前的版本中，当 DDL 任务执行期间遇到业务高峰时间点时，为了减少对业务的影响，只能手动取消 DDL 任务。TiDB v7.2.0 引入了 DDL 任务的暂停和恢复功能，你可以在高峰时间点暂停 DDL 任务，等到业务高峰时间结束后再恢复 DDL 任务，从而避免了 DDL 操作对业务负载的影响。
> 
>     例如，可以通过如下 `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` 或 `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS` 语句暂停或者恢复多个 DDL 任务：
> 
>     ```sql
>     ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
>     ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
> 
>    更多信息，请参考 [用户文档](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl - 相关的命令介绍)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (experimental) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

    Before TiDB v7.2.0, when a DDL job encounters a business peak period during execution, you can only manually cancel the DDL job to reduce its impact on the business. In v7.2.0, TiDB introduces pause and resume operations for DDL jobs. These operations let you pause DDL jobs during peak periods and resume them after the peak ends, thus avoiding any impact on your application workloads.

    For example, you can pause and resume multiple DDL jobs using `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` or `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS`:

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md).

* 降低 TiFlash 等待 schema 同步的时延 [#7630](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7630) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1361-->

    当表的 schema 变动时，TiFlash 需要及时和 TiKV 同步表的 schema 信息。在 v7.2.0 版本之前，TiFlash 访问表数据时，如果检测到某张表的 schema 变动时，会同步所有表的 schema 信息。即使一张表没有 TiFlash 副本，TiFlash 也会同步该表的 schema 信息。当数据库中有大量表时，读取一张表的数据需要同步所有表的 schema 信息，schema 同步的时延非常高。在 v7.2.0 版本中，TiFlash 优化 schema 同步机制，只同步包含 TiFlash 副本的表的 schema 信息，并且当检测到某张表的 schema 变动时，只同步该表的 schema 信息，降低 TiFlash 同步 schema 的时延。该优化自动生效，不需要任何设定调整。

> * Improve the performance of statistical information collection [#44725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44725) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1352-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of statistics collection [#44725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44725) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1352-->
```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)

### Reliability

* Automatically manage queries that consume more resources than expected (experimental) [#43691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43691) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1411-->

    The most common challenge to database stability is the degradation of overall database performance caused by abrupt SQL performance problems. There are many causes for SQL performance issues, such as new SQL statements that have not been fully tested, drastic changes in data volume, and abrupt changes in execution plans. These issues are difficult to completely avoid at the root. TiDB v7.2.0 provides the ability to manage queries that consume more resources than expected. This feature can quickly reduce the scope of impact when a performance issue occurs.
    

>     You can set the maximum execution time of a query for a resource group. When the execution time of a query exceeds the setting, the query is automatically deprioritized or cancelled. You can also set a period of time to immediately match identified queries by text, thus avoiding a situation where the concurrency of the problematic queries is so high that it consumes more resources than expected during the identification phase.

Reviewer 2: Trying to break down the long sentence to shorter ones.

```suggestion
    To manage these queries, you can set the maximum execution time of queries for a resource group. When the execution time of a query exceeds this limit, the query is automatically deprioritized or cancelled. You can also set a period of time to immediately match identified queries by text. This helps prevent high concurrency of the problematic queries during the identification phase that could consume more resources than expected.
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries).

* Enhance the capability of creating a binding according to a historical execution plan [#39199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39199) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1349-->

    TiDB v7.2.0 enhances the capability of creating a binding according to a historical execution plan. This feature improves the parsing and binding process for complex statements and supports new hints including [`AGG_TO_COP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#agg_to_cop), [`LIMIT_TO_COP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#limit_to_cop), [`ORDER_INDEX`](/optimizer-hints.md#order_indext1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name), and [`NO_ORDER_INDEX()`](/optimizer-hints.md#no_order_indext1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name). With this capability, SQL bindings created from historical execution plans provide more stable fixes for execution plans.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.md).

> * The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism provides fine-grained control over optimizer behaviors [#43169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43169) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@hfxsd**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Introduce the Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism to provide fine-grained control over optimizer behaviors [#43169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43169) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@hfxsd**
```

>     To generate more reasonable execution plans, the behavior of the TiDB optimizer evolves over product iterations. However, in some particular scenarios, the changes might lead to performance regression. TiDB v7.2.0 introduces Optimizer Fix Controls to let you control some of the fine-grained behaviors of the optimizer. You can roll back or control some new changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To generate more reasonable execution plans, the behavior of the TiDB optimizer evolves over product iterations. However, in some particular scenarios, the changes might lead to performance regression. TiDB v7.2.0 introduces Optimizer Fix Controls to let you control some of the fine-grained behaviors of the optimizer. This enables you to roll back or control some new changes.
```

    
    Each controllable behavior is described by a GitHub issue corresponding to the fix number. All controllable behaviors are listed in [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md). You can set a target value for one or more behaviors by setting the [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_fix_control-new-in-v710) system variable to achieve behavior control. 
    
    The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism helps you control the TiDB optimizer at a granular level. It provides a new means of fixing performance issues caused by the upgrade process and improves the stability of TiDB. 
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

### SQL

* 支持 `CHECK` 约束 [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678] (https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->

    v7.2.0 版本开始，用户可以通过 `CHECK` 约束功能约束表中一个或者多个字段值必须满足特定条件。添加 `CHECK` 约束后，TiDB 会在数据插入或者更新时检查约束条件是否满足，只允许满足约束的数据写入。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### DB operations

* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (experimental) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

>     Before TiDB v7.2.0, when a DDL job encounters a business peak period during execution, you can only manually cancel the DDL job to reduce its impact on the business. In v7.2.0, TiDB introduces pause and resume operations for DDL jobs. These operations let you pause DDL jobs during peak periods and resume them after the peak ends, thus avoiding any impact on your application workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before TiDB v7.2.0, when a DDL job encounters a business peak during execution, you can only manually cancel the DDL job to reduce its impact on the business. In v7.2.0, TiDB introduces pause and resume operations for DDL jobs. These operations let you pause DDL jobs during a peak and resume them after the peak ends, thus avoiding any impact on your application workloads.
```

### Configuration file parameters

| 配置文件 | 配置项 | 修改类型 | 描述 |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].optimize-filters-for-memory</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#optimize-filters-for-memory-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to generate Bloom/Ribbon filters that minimize memory internal fragmentation. |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].ribbon-filter-above-level</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#ribbon-filter-above-level-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to use Ribbon filters for levels greater than or equal to this value and use non-block-based bloom filters for levels less than this value. |
| TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-pairs` | Deprecated | Starting from v7.2.0, the parameter `send-kv-pairs` is deprecated. You can use [`send-kv-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) to control the maximum size of one request when sending data to TiKV in physical import mode.  **tw@hfxsd** <!--1420--> |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`send-kv-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Specify the maximum size of one request when sending data to TiKV in physical import mode. When the size of KV key-value pairs reaches the specified threshold, they will be immediately sent to TiKV by TiDB Lightning to avoid the OOM problem caused by TiDB Lightning nodes accumulating too many key-value pairs in memory when importing large wide tables. By adjusting this parameter, you can find a balance between memory usage and import speed, improving the stability and efficiency of the import process. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1420-->|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`send-kv-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Specify the maximum size of one request when sending data to TiKV in physical import mode. When the size of key-value pairs reaches the specified threshold,  TiDB Lightning will immediately send them to TiKV. This avoids the OOM problems caused by TiDB Lightning nodes accumulating too many key-value pairs in memory when importing large wide tables. By adjusting this parameter, you can find a balance between memory usage and import speed, improving the stability and efficiency of the import process. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1420-->|
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

> Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

Author: ```suggestion
Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720).

* Improve the performance of checking data and index consistency [#43693](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43693) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw@qiancai** <!--1436-->

    The [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement is used to check the consistency between data in a table and its corresponding indexes. In v7.2.0, TiDB optimizes the method for checking data consistency and improves the execution efficiency of [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) greatly. In scenarios with large amounts of data, this optimization can provide a performance boost of hundreds of times.

>     The optimization is enabled by default ([`tidb_enable_fast_table_check`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720) is `ON` by default) to greatly reduce the time required for data consistency checks in large-scale table and enhance operational efficiency.

Author: ```suggestion
    The optimization is enabled by default ([`tidb_enable_fast_table_check`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720) is `ON` by default) to greatly reduce the time required for data consistency checks in large-scale tables and enhance operational efficiency.
```

    
    The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism helps you control the TiDB optimizer at a granular level. It provides a new means of fixing performance issues caused by the upgrade process and improves the stability of TiDB. 
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

### SQL

* Support the `CHECK` constraints [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678] (https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->

    Starting from v7.2.0, you can use `CHECK` constraints to restrict the values of one or more columns in a table to meet your specified conditions. When a `CHECK` constraint is added to a table, TiDB checks whether the constraint is satisfied before inserting or updating data in the table. Only the data that satisfies the constraint can be written.

>     For more information, please refer to the [user documentation](/constraints.md#check-constraints).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/constraints.md#check-constraints).
```

    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

### Observability

### Data Migration

* Introduce a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO` to improve data import efficiency greatly (Experimental [#42930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42930) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1413-->

    The `IMPORT INTO` statement integrates the [Physical Import Mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md) capability of TiDB Lightning. With this statement, you can quickly import data in formats such as `CSV`, `SQL`, and `PARQUET` into an empty table in TiDB. This import method eliminates the need for a separate deployment and management of TiDB Lightning, thereby reducing the complexity of data import and greatly improving import efficiency.

    For data files stored in Amazon S3 or GCS, when the [Backend task distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md) is enabled, `IMPORT INTO` also supports splitting the data import task into multiple sub-tasks and scheduling them to multiple TiDB nodes for parallel import, which further enhances import performance.

>     For more information, see the [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).
```

* TiDB Lightning supports importing source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB [#44434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44434) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@qiancai** <!--1432-->

    With this feature, you can directly import source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB via TiDB Lightning. Before v7.2.0, importing such files requires your additional preprocessing or conversion. Starting from v7.2.0, you only need to specify `character-set = "latin1"` when configuring the TiDB Lightning import task. Then, TiDB Lightning will automatically handle the character set conversion during the import process to ensure data integrity and accuracy.

>     For more information, see the [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task).
```

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.1.0 to the current version (v7.2.0). If you are upgrading from v7.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

<!-- 此小节包含 MySQL 兼容性变更-->

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

> | 变量名  | 修改类型（包括新增/修改/删除）    | 描述 |

Author: ```suggestion
| Variable name | Change type | Description |
```

|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery`](/system-variables.md#tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery-new-in-v610) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the optimizer removes the `ORDER BY` clause in a subquery. |

> |  [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720)      | Newly added |  This variable controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected.   |

Author: ```suggestion
|  [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720)      | Newly added |  This variable controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected.   |
| [`tidb_enable_fast_table_check`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls whether to use a checksum-based approach to quickly check the consistency of data and indexes in a table. The default value `ON` means this feature is enabled by default. |
```

| [`tidb_expensive_txn_time_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_expensive_txn_time_threshold-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for logging expensive transactions, which is 600 seconds by default. When the duration of a transaction exceeds the threshold, and the transaction is neither committed nor rolled back, it is considered an expensive transaction and will be logged. |
|        |                              |      |
| [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720) | Newly added | This variable is used to control whether to enable the new execution model of TiFlash, the [pipeline model](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md). The default value is `OFF`, which means the pipeline model is disabled. |

### Configuration file parameters

> | 配置文件 | 配置项 | 修改类型 | 描述 |

Author: ```suggestion
| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
```

| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].optimize-filters-for-memory</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#optimize-filters-for-memory-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to generate Bloom/Ribbon filters that minimize memory internal fragmentation. |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].ribbon-filter-above-level</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#ribbon-filter-above-level-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to use Ribbon filters for levels greater than or equal to this value and use non-block-based bloom filters for levels less than this value. |

> | TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-pairs` | Deprecated | Starting from v7.2.0, the parameter `send-kv-pairs` is deprecated. You can use [`send-kv-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) to control the maximum size of one request when sending data to TiKV in physical import mode.  **tw@hfxsd** <!--1420--> |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | `send-kv-pairs` | Deprecated | Starting from v7.2.0, the parameter `send-kv-pairs` is deprecated. You can use [`send-kv-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) to control the maximum size of one request when sending data to TiKV in physical import mode.  **tw@hfxsd** <!--1420--> |
| TiDB Lightning | `character-set` | Modified | Introduce a new value option `latin1` for the supported character sets for data import. You can use this option to import source files with the Latin-1 character set. |
```

    In v7.2.0, TiFlash optimizes the schema replication mechanism and supports only replicating schemas of tables with TiFlash replicas. When a schema change is detected for a table with TiFlash replicas, TiFlash only replicates schema of that table, which reduces the latency of schema replication of TiFlash. This optimization is automatically applied and does not require any manual configuration.

* Improve the performance of statistical information collection [#44725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44725) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1352-->

    TiDB v7.2.0 optimizes the statistics collection strategy, skipping some of the duplicate information and information that is of little value to the optimizer. The overall speed of statistics collection has been improved by 30%. This improvement allows TiDB to update the statistics of the database in a more timely manner, making the generated execution plans more accurate, thus improving the overall database performance.

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    By default, statistics collection skips the columns of the `json`, `blob`, `mediumblob`, and `longblob` types. You can modify the default behavior by setting the [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) system variable. TiDB supports skipping the `JSON`, `BLOB`, and `TEXT` types and their subtypes.
    
```

｜ TiCDC ｜ [`sink.delete-only-output-handle-key-columns`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) ｜ Newly added ｜ Specifies the output of DELETE events. This parameter is valid only for canal-json and open-protocol protocols. The default value is `false`, which means outputting all columns. When you set it to true, only primary key columns or unique index columns are output. ｜

## 废弃功能

- note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - 优化构造索引扫描范围的逻辑，支持将一些复杂条件转化为索引扫描范围 [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @xuyifangreeneyes
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + TiCDC

        - 优化同步到对象存储场景下发生 DDL 时存放数据文件目录的结构 [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - 增加在 Kafka 场景下支持 OAUTHBEARER 认证方式 [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 增加在同步到 Kafka 场景下，对于 `DELETE` 操作，你可以选择只输出 Handle Key 的方式 [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Optimize the structure of the directory where data files are stored when a DDL occurs in the scenario of replication to an object storage service [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support the OAUTHBEARER authentication in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        -  Add the option of outputting only the handle keys for the `DELETE` operation in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    - 详细记录 write command 处理时间细节 [#12362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12362) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ PD <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

    - PD Leader 选举使用单独的 gRPC 链接，防止受到其他请求的影响 [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 默认打开 bucket split，改善 Multi-Region 的热点问题 [#6433](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6433) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - 为外部存储 Azure Blob Storage 提供 SAS (shared access signature) 的访问方式 [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - 优化同步到对象存储场景下发生 DDL 时存放数据文件目录的结构 [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891)
        - 增加在 Kafka 场景下 OAuth 认证方式的支持 [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865)
        - 增加同步到 Kafka 场景下，对于 delete 操作，用户可以只选择输出 handle key 的方式 [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 支持 MySQL 8.0 压缩 binlog 的增量同步 [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 优化导入时遇到 leader 切换导致的错误的重试机制 [#44478](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44478)
        - 导入完成后通过 SQL 的方式校验 checksum，提升检验的稳定性 [#41941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41941)
        - 优化宽表导入下 lightning OOM 的问题 [43853](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43853)
```

    - 修复了 memtracker 配合 cursor 使用导致内存泄漏的问题 [#44254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44254) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复了删除 database 导致 GC 推进慢的问题 [#33069](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33069) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - 修复了分区表在 Index join 的 probe 阶段找不到对应行而报错的问题 [#43686](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43686) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复了创建 subpartition 的报错信息 [#41198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41198) [#41200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41200) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复了执行时间超过 `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME` 被 kill 的返回值和 MySQL 不一致的问题 [#43031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43031) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - 修复了 Leading Hint 无法支持 query block alias 的问题 [#44645](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44645)  @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - last_insert_id函数的返回类型从varchar变更为longlong，与MySQL相同，同时last_insert_id的最大上限也变更为MaxUint64。[#44574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44574)  @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复了 CTE 多次被非关联子查询引用的情况下，因过滤条件下推导致的结果错误 [#44051] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44051)  @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复了 outer join reorder 对 condition 的错误处理导致的结果正确性问题 [#44314] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44314)  @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复了 `prepare stmt from "analyze table xxx"` 会被 `tidb_mem_quota_query` kill 掉的问题 [#44320] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44320) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan)

```

        - 修复了在一些情况下误报 resolved lock timeout 的问题 [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - 修复了在恢复统计信息的时候可能会 panic 的问题 [#44490](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44490) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - 修复在某些特殊情况下 resolved ts 不能正常推进的问题 [#8963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8963)
        - 修复使用 Avro 或 csv 协议场景下 update  操作不能输出旧值的问题 [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9086)
        - 修复同步到 Kafka 场景下，读取下游 meta 信息太频繁导致下游压力过大的问题 [#8959](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8959)
        - 修复同步到 TiDB/MySQL场景下频繁设置下游 BDR 相关变量导致下游日志过多的问题 [#9180](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9180)
        - 修复 PD 节点 crash 时导致 CDC节点重启的问题 [#8868](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8868)
        - 修复 TiCDC 同步到 KOP 时不能正确建立链接的问题 [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 修复开启 expression index 且默认值是 uuid 导致 lightning panic 的问题 [#44516](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44516)
        - 修复划分数据文件时任务退出导致 lightning panic 的问题 [#43195](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43195)
```

    - compaction-guard-min-output-file-size默认值从8MB改为1MB [#14888](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14888) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
    - 使用 gzip 压缩 check leader 请求减少流量消耗   [#14553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14553) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 添加 check leader 相关 metric [#14658](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14658) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 详细记录 write command 处理时间细节 [#12362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12362) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ PD <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

    - PD Leader 选举使用单独的 gRPC 链接，防止受到其他请求的影响 [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 默认打开 bucket split，改善 Multi-Region 的热点问题 [#6433](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6433) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - 为外部存储 Azure Blob Storage 提供 SAS (shared access signature) 的访问方式 [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

>         - 优化同步到对象存储场景下发生 DDL 时存放数据文件目录的结构 [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891)
>         - 增加在 Kafka 场景下 OAuth 认证方式的支持 [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865)
>         - 增加同步到 Kafka 场景下，对于 delete 操作，用户可以只选择输出 handle key 的方式 [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        
        - 优化同步到对象存储场景下发生 DDL 时存放数据文件目录的结构 [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - 增加在 Kafka 场景下支持 OAUTHBEARER 认证方式 [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - 增加在同步到 Kafka 场景下，对于 `DELETE` 操作，你可以选择只输出 Handle Key 的方式 [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Optimize the structure of the directory where data files are stored when a DDL occurs in the scenario of replication to an object storage service [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support the OAUTHBEARER authentication in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Add the option of outputting only the handle keys for the `DELETE` operation in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    - 支持配置PDclient的重连间隔 [#14964](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14964) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - resource control提高调度算法将全局的资源使用作为调度因素 [#14604](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14604) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - compaction-guard-min-output-file-size默认值从8MB改为1MB [#14888](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14888) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
    - 使用 gzip 压缩 check leader 请求减少流量消耗   [#14553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14553) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 添加 check leader 相关 metric [#14658](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14658) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 详细记录 write command 处理时间细节 [#12362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12362) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ PD <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

    - PD Leader 选举使用单独的 gRPC 链接，防止受到其他请求的影响 [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 默认打开 bucket split，改善 Multi-Region 的热点问题 [#6433](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6433) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

>         - 为外部存储 Azure Blob Storage 提供 SAS (shared access signature) 的访问方式 [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support access to Azure Blob Storage by shared access signature (SAS) [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        
        - Optimize the structure of the directory where data files are stored when a DDL occurs in the scenario of replication to an object storage service [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support the OAUTHBEARER authentication in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Add the option of outputting only the handle keys for the `DELETE` operation in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - 支持 MySQL 8.0 压缩 binlog 的增量同步 [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support MySQL 8.0 compressed binlogs [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

>         - Support MySQL 8.0 compressed binlogs [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support using MySQL 8.0 to compress binlogs [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

    - 修复了 `prepare stmt from "analyze table xxx"` 会被 `tidb_mem_quota_query` kill 掉的问题 [#44320] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44320) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan)

+ TiKV <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

    - 修复处理stale悲观锁冲突时不正确的事务返回值 [#13298](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13298) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - 修复in-memory pessimistic locks可能导致flashback失败和数据不一致 [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - 修复 fair lock 在出现 stale req 情况下的正确性问题 #[13298](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13298) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - 修复 autocommit point get 在 follower read 情况下线性一致性可能被破坏的问题 #[14715](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14715) @[cfzjywxkj](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ PD <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

    - 修复在特殊情况下冗余副本无法自动修复的问题 [#6573](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6573) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

+ TiFlash <!--**tw@qiancai**-->

    - 修复在 join 的 build 端数据量很大且含有大量短字符串时内存消耗过大的问题 [#7416](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7416) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

>         - 修复了在一些情况下误报 checksum mismatch 的问题 [#44472](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44472) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复了在一些情况下误报 resolved lock timeout 的问题 [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>         - 修复了在恢复统计信息的时候可能会 panic 的问题 [#44490](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44490) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `checksum mismatch` is falsely reported in some cases [#44472](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44472) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that `resolved lock timeout` is falsely reported in some cases [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when restoring statistics information [#44490](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44490) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

>         - 修复在某些特殊情况下 resolved ts 不能正常推进的问题 [#8963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8963)
>         - 修复使用 Avro 或 csv 协议场景下 update  操作不能输出旧值的问题 [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9086)
>         - 修复同步到 Kafka 场景下，读取下游 meta 信息太频繁导致下游压力过大的问题 [#8959](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8959)
>         - 修复同步到 TiDB/MySQL场景下频繁设置下游 BDR 相关变量导致下游日志过多的问题 [#9180](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9180)
>         - 修复 PD 节点 crash 时导致 CDC节点重启的问题 [#8868](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8868)
>         - 修复 TiCDC 同步到 KOP 时不能正确建立链接的问题 [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Resolved TS does not advance properly in some cases [#8963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8963) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the `UPDATE` operation cannot output old values when the Avro or CSV protocol is used [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue of excessive downstream pressure caused by reading downstream metadata too frequently when replicating to Kafka [#8959](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8959) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Fix the issue of too many downstream logs caused by frequently setting the downstream BDR-related variables in the scenario of replication to TiDB or MySQL [#9180](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9180) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that PD node crashing causes the TiCDC node to restart [#8868](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8868) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC cannot create a changefeed with downstrem KOP [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - 修复开启 expression index 且默认值是 uuid 导致 lightning panic 的问题 [#44516](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44516)
>         - 修复划分数据文件时任务退出导致 lightning panic 的问题 [#43195](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43195)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the TiDB Lightning panic issue when `experimental.allow-expression-index` is enabled and the default value is UUID [#44497](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44497) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the TiDB Lightning panic issue when a task exits while dividing a data file [#43195](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43195) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<!-- key feature placeholder-->

## Feature details

### Performance

> * Supporting pushing down the following two [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) to TiFlash [#7427](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7427)  @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai** <!--1310-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support pushing down the following two [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) to TiFlash [#7427](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7427) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai** <!--1310-->
```

    * `FIRST_VALUE`
    * `LAST_VALUE`

* TiFlash supports the pipeline execution model (experimental) [#6518](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6518) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1440-->

    Prior to v7.2.0, each task in the TiFlash engine must individually request thread resources during execution. TiFlash controls the number of tasks to limit thread resource usage and prevent overuse, but this issue could not be completely eliminated. To address this problem, starting from v7.2.0, TiFlash introduces a pipeline execution model. This model centrally manages all thread resources and schedules task execution uniformly, maximizing the utilization of thread resources while avoiding resource overuse. To enable or disable the pipeline execution model, modify the [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720) system variable.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md).

> * TiFlash reduces latency of schema replication [#7630](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7630) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1361-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiFlash reduces the latency of schema replication [#7630](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7630) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1361-->
```

    To generate more reasonable execution plans, the behavior of the TiDB optimizer evolves over product iterations. However, in some particular scenarios, the changes might lead to performance regression. TiDB v7.2.0 introduces Optimizer Fix Controls to let you control some of the fine-grained behaviors of the optimizer. This enables you to roll back or control some new changes.

    Each controllable behavior is described by a GitHub issue corresponding to the fix number. All controllable behaviors are listed in [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md). You can set a target value for one or more behaviors by setting the [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_fix_control-new-in-v710) system variable to achieve behavior control.

    The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism helps you control the TiDB optimizer at a granular level. It provides a new means of fixing performance issues caused by the upgrade process and improves the stability of TiDB.

    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

### SQL

> * Support the `CHECK` constraints [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678] (https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support the `CHECK` constraints [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/constraints.md#check-constraints).

### DB operations

* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (experimental) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

    Before TiDB v7.2.0, when a DDL job encounters a business peak during execution, you can only manually cancel the DDL job to reduce its impact on the business. In v7.2.0, TiDB introduces pause and resume operations for DDL jobs. These operations let you pause DDL jobs during a peak and resume them after the peak ends, thus avoiding impact on your application workloads.

    For example, you can pause and resume multiple DDL jobs using `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` or `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS`:

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

### Observability

### Data Migration

> * Introduce a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO` to improve data import efficiency greatly (Experimental [#42930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42930) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1413-->
> 
>     The `IMPORT INTO` statement integrates the [Physical Import Mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md) capability of TiDB Lightning. With this statement, you can quickly import data in formats such as `CSV`, `SQL`, and `PARQUET` into an empty table in TiDB. This import method eliminates the need for a separate deployment and management of TiDB Lightning, thereby reducing the complexity of data import and greatly improving import efficiency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Introduce a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO` to improve data import efficiency greatly (experimental) [#42930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42930) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1413-->

    The `IMPORT INTO` statement integrates the [Physical Import Mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md) capability of TiDB Lightning. With this statement, you can quickly import data in formats such as CSV, SQL, and PARQUET into an empty table in TiDB. This import method eliminates the need for a separate deployment and management of TiDB Lightning, thereby reducing the complexity of data import and greatly improving import efficiency.
```

    For data files stored in Amazon S3 or GCS, when the [Backend task distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md) is enabled, `IMPORT INTO` also supports splitting the data import task into multiple sub-tasks and scheduling them to multiple TiDB nodes for parallel import, which further enhances import performance.

    For more information, see [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

* TiDB Lightning supports importing source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB [#44434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44434) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@qiancai** <!--1432-->

>     With this feature, you can directly import source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB via TiDB Lightning. Before v7.2.0, importing such files requires your additional preprocessing or conversion. Starting from v7.2.0, you only need to specify `character-set = "latin1"` when configuring the TiDB Lightning import task. Then, TiDB Lightning will automatically handle the character set conversion during the import process to ensure data integrity and accuracy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    With this feature, you can directly import source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB using TiDB Lightning. Before v7.2.0, importing such files requires your additional preprocessing or conversion. Starting from v7.2.0, you only need to specify `character-set = "latin1"` when configuring the TiDB Lightning import task. Then, TiDB Lightning automatically handles the character set conversion during the import process to ensure data integrity and accuracy.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720).

### Reliability

* Automatically manage queries that consume more resources than expected (experimental) [#43691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43691) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

    The most common challenge to database stability is the degradation of overall database performance caused by abrupt SQL performance problems. There are many causes for SQL performance issues, such as new SQL statements that have not been fully tested, drastic changes in data volume, and abrupt changes in execution plans. These issues are difficult to completely avoid at the root. TiDB v7.2.0 provides the ability to manage queries that consume more resources than expected. This feature can quickly reduce the scope of impact when a performance issue occurs.

>     To manage these queries, you can set the maximum execution time of queries for a resource group. When the execution time of a query exceeds this limit, the query is automatically deprioritized or cancelled. You can also set a period of time to immediately match identified queries by text. This helps prevent high concurrency of the problematic queries during the identification phase that could consume more resources than expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To manage these queries, you can set the maximum execution time of queries for a resource group. When the execution time of a query exceeds this limit, the query is automatically deprioritized or cancelled. You can also set a period of time to immediately match identified queries by text or or execution plan. This helps prevent high concurrency of the problematic queries during the identification phase that could consume more resources than expected.
```

     This feature is disabled by default. You can set the [`tidb_enable_check_constraint`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_check_constraint-new-in-v720) system variable to `ON` to enable it.

    For more information, see [documentation](/constraints.md#check).

### DB operations

* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (experimental) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

    Before TiDB v7.2.0, when a DDL job encounters a business peak during execution, you can only manually cancel the DDL job to reduce its impact on the business. In v7.2.0, TiDB introduces pause and resume operations for DDL jobs. These operations let you pause DDL jobs during a peak and resume them after the peak ends, thus avoiding impact on your application workloads.

    For example, you can pause and resume multiple DDL jobs using `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` or `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS`:

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

> ### Data Migration

Author: ```suggestion
### Data migration
```

* Introduce a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO` to improve data import efficiency greatly (experimental) [#42930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42930) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

    The `IMPORT INTO` statement integrates the [Physical Import Mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md) capability of TiDB Lightning. With this statement, you can quickly import data in formats such as CSV, SQL, and PARQUET into an empty table in TiDB. This import method eliminates the need for a separate deployment and management of TiDB Lightning, thereby reducing the complexity of data import and greatly improving import efficiency.

>     For data files stored in Amazon S3 or GCS, when the [Backend task distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md) is enabled, `IMPORT INTO` also supports splitting the data import task into multiple sub-tasks and scheduling them to multiple TiDB nodes for parallel import, which further enhances import performance.

Author: ```suggestion
    For data files stored in Amazon S3 or GCS, when the [Backend task distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md) is enabled, `IMPORT INTO` also supports splitting a data import job into multiple sub-jobs and scheduling them to multiple TiDB nodes for parallel import, which further enhances import performance.
```

    With this feature, you can directly import source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB using TiDB Lightning. Before v7.2.0, importing such files requires your additional preprocessing or conversion. Starting from v7.2.0, you only need to specify `character-set = "latin1"` when configuring the TiDB Lightning import task. Then, TiDB Lightning automatically handles the character set conversion during the import process to ensure data integrity and accuracy.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.1.0 to the current version (v7.2.0). If you are upgrading from v7.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`last_insert_id`](/system-variables.md#last_insert_id-new-in-v530) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `9223372036854775807` to `18446744073709551615` to be consistent with that of MySQL. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`last_insert_id`](/system-variables.md#last_insert_id) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `9223372036854775807` to `18446744073709551615` to be consistent with that of MySQL. |
```

| Data Migration | [`strict-optimistic-shard-mode`](/dm/feature-shard-merge-optimistic.md) | Newly added | This configuration item is used to be compatible with the DDL shard merge behavior in TiDB Data Migration v2.0. You can enable this configuration item in optimistic mode. After this is enabled, the replication task will be interrupted when it encounters a Type 2 DDL statement. In scenarios where there are dependencies between DDL changes in multiple tables, a timely interruption can be made. You need to manually process the DDL statements of each table before resuming the replication task to ensure data consistency between the upstream and the downstream. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.protocol`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `"open-protocol"` when the downstream is Kafka. Specifies the protocol format used for encoding messages. |

> | TiCDC | [`sink.delete-only-output-handle-key-columns`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the output of DELETE events. This parameter is valid only for canal-json and open-protocol protocols. The default value is `false`, which means outputting all columns. When you set it to true, only primary key columns or unique index columns are output. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`sink.delete-only-output-handle-key-columns`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the output of DELETE events. This parameter is valid only for `"canal-json"` and `"open-protocol"` protocols. The default value is `false`, which means outputting all columns. When you set it to true, only primary key columns or unique index columns are output. |
```

    <td>You can now manage query timeout with more granularity, allowing for different behaviors based on query classifications. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or terminated.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/tiflash-pipeline-model">pipeline execution model</a> (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td>Support a new SQL statement, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a>, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>
   <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO`, which integrates physical import capabilities of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 directly into TiDB.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> (experimental)</td>

>     <td>DDL operations such as adding indexes can consume a lot of resources and affect online traffic. As homage to traditional schema change tools like pt-osc and gh-ost, TiDB now natively supports suspending multiple background jobs at once. This feature lets you conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic, without the need to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>Introducing the DDL Pause and Resume feature! With this new capability, users can now temporarily suspend resource-intensive DDL operations, such as index creation, to conserve resources and minimize impact on online traffic. Seamlessly resume these operations when ready, without the need to cancel and restart. Enhance resource utilization, improve user experience, and streamline schema changes with DDL Pause and Resume.</td>
```

Author: @samhld PTAL. Thanks.

    With this feature, you can directly import source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB using TiDB Lightning. Before v7.2.0, importing such files requires your additional preprocessing or conversion. Starting from v7.2.0, you only need to specify `character-set = "latin1"` when configuring the TiDB Lightning import task. Then, TiDB Lightning automatically handles the character set conversion during the import process to ensure data integrity and accuracy.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.1.0 to the current version (v7.2.0). If you are upgrading from v7.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`last_insert_id`](/system-variables.md#last_insert_id-new-in-v530) | Modified | Changes the maximum value of this variable from  `9223372036854775807` to `18446744073709551615` to be consistent with MySQL. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`last_insert_id`](/system-variables.md#last_insert_id-new-in-v530) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from  `9223372036854775807` to `18446744073709551615` to be consistent with that of MySQL. |
```

| [`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared plan cache is enabled. |
| [`tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery`](/system-variables.md#tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery-new-in-v610) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the optimizer removes the `ORDER BY` clause in a subquery. |

> |  [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720)      | Newly added |  This variable controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected.   |

Author: ```suggestion
|  [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720)      | Newly added |  Controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected.   |
```

| [`tidb_enable_check_constraint`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_check_constraint-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls whether to enabled `CHECK` constraints. The default value is `OFF`, which means this feature is disabled. |
| [`tidb_enable_fast_table_check`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls whether to use a checksum-based approach to quickly check the consistency of data and indexes in a table. The default value is `ON`, which means this feature is enabled. |

> | [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720) | Newly added | This variable is used to control whether to enable the new execution model of TiFlash, the [pipeline model](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md). The default value is `OFF`, which means the pipeline model is disabled. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the new execution model of TiFlash, the [pipeline model](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md). The default value is `OFF`, which means the pipeline model is disabled. |
```

    <td>You can now manage query timeout with more granularity, allowing for different behaviors based on query classifications. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or terminated.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/tiflash-pipeline-model">pipeline execution model</a> (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td>Support a new SQL statement, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a>, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>
   <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO`, which integrates physical import capabilities of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 directly into TiDB.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> (experimental)</td>

>     <td>This new capability lets users temporarily suspend resource-intensive DDL operations, such as index creation, to conserve resources and minimize impact on online traffic. Seamlessly resume these operations when ready, without the need to cancel and restart. Enhance resource utilization, improve user experience, and streamline schema changes with DDL Pause and Resume.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>This new capability lets you temporarily suspend resource-intensive DDL operations, such as index creation, to conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic. Seamlessly resume these operations when ready, without the need to cancel and restart. Enhance resource utilization, improve user experience, and streamline schema changes with DDL pause and resume.</td>
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

> <table>

Reviewer 5: @qiancai @Oreoxmt Not sure the best way to include links to docs so will need your guidance there. Each with a respective documentation page should have a link in the feature name. I see two different ways of hyperlinking in the docs: 1) with the actual URL of the docs page and 2) a relative reference to a docs page like `[Documentation](<path>)`

Author: @samhld It depends on where we use these links. 
- For links in Markdown, the syntax is [Documentation](<relative .md path>).
- For links in HTML (like this feature table HTML), because the relative path does not work, we need to use the actual URL.

<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Runaway queries managed by Resource Groups (experimental)</td>

>     <td>Query timeouts exist on a per-TiKV node basis but now Resoure Groups can manage queries by global parallel execution time and either deprioritize or kill them. Allowing operators to configure this timeout and what do with the queries at a Resource Group level, gives them much more control over the impact unexected large queries may have on the cluster.

Reviewer 5: @Connor1996 PTAL for accuracy.

Reviewer 6: Query timeout exists before as MaxExecutionTime. So don't need to compare it with `Query timeouts exist on a per-TiKV node`

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash support for pipeline execution model (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.

> This is currently depended on by TiDB Serverless analytical capabilties.</td>

Author: Does TiDB Serverless here means TiDB Serverless clusters?

* Improve the performance of checking data and index consistency [#43693](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43693) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw@qiancai** <!--1436-->

    The [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement is used to check the consistency between data in a table and its corresponding indexes. In v7.2.0, TiDB optimizes the method for checking data consistency and improves the execution efficiency of [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) greatly. In scenarios with large amounts of data, this optimization can provide a performance boost of hundreds of times.

    The optimization is enabled by default ([`tidb_enable_fast_table_check`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720) is `ON` by default) to greatly reduce the time required for data consistency checks in large-scale tables and enhance operational efficiency.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_table_check-new-in-v720).

### Reliability

> * Automatically manage queries that consume more resources than expected (experimental) [#43691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43691) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1411-->

Reviewer 5: @qiancai @Connor1996 in the [related Github issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43691), While this release note highlights that it's measuring execution time, I think we should highlight that this is total execution time rather than just a single coprocessor execution time (the previous way). That's a big and positive change.

Reviewer 6: ditto

Reviewer 5: @Connor1996 Hmm now I'm confused given your earlier reply to the highlight text above. Can you elaborate a little on that?

Reviewer 7: @samhld Sam, here we introduced a fresh new mechanism to take actions automatically on certain queries by defining rules. That's the point we shall highlight.  "query execution time" is the first rule included, we may append more rules like "resource unit", "cpu time" in the future release.  So we don't have to compare with "coprocessor execution time", as it's different in dimension.

| [`tidb_expensive_txn_time_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_expensive_txn_time_threshold-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for logging expensive transactions, which is 600 seconds by default. When the duration of a transaction exceeds the threshold, and the transaction is neither committed nor rolled back, it is considered an expensive transaction and will be logged. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true`, meaning that TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. |
| TiDB | [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true`, meaning that TiDB uses lightweight statistics initialization during TiDB startup. |

> | TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].optimize-filters-for-memory</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#optimize-filters-for-memory-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to generate Bloom/Ribbon filters that minimize memory internal fragmentation. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].compaction-guard-min-output-file-size</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#compaction-guard-min-output-file-size) | Modified | Changes the default value from `"8MB"` to `"1MB"` to reduce the data volume of compaction tasks in RocksDB. |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\[defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\].optimize-filters-for-memory</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#optimize-filters-for-memory-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to generate Bloom/Ribbon filters that minimize memory internal fragmentation. |
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Runaway queries managed by Resource Groups (experimental)</td>

>     <td>Query timeouts exist on a per-TiKV node basis but now Resoure Groups can manage queries by global parallel execution time and either deprioritize or kill them. Allowing operators to configure this timeout and what do with the queries at a Resource Group level, gives them much more control over the impact unexected large queries may have on the cluster.

Reviewer 7: Sam, I agree that we don't have to compare with timeout on TiKV. 

```suggestion
    <td>Resource Groups can manage queries that take longer time than expected and either deprioritize or kill them. Allowing operators to configure this timeout and what do with the queries at a Resource Group level, gives them much more control over the impact unexected large queries may have on the cluster.
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental)</td>

>     <td>Query timeout can now be managed with more granularity, allowing for different behaviors based on query classifications. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or killed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>You can now manage query timeout with more granularity, allowing for different behaviors based on query classifications. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or terminated.
```

>     <td>You can now manage query timeout with more granularity, allowing for different behaviors based on query classifications. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or terminated.

Author: @samhld PTAL
https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/13910/commits/c8f0efe02b2f776c578fdb1ef287cd4b5f87ca1d

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/tiflash-pipeline-model">pipeline execution model</a> (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td>Support a new SQL statement, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a>, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>

>    <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces a new SQL statement <code>IMPORT INTO</code>, which integrates physical import mode of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 directly into TiDB.</td>

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
   <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces a new SQL statement <code>IMPORT INTO</code>, which integrates physical import mode of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage (GCS) directly into TiDB.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md).

* TiFlash reduces the latency of schema replication [#7630](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7630) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@qiancai** <!--1361-->

    When the schema of a table changes, TiFlash needs to replicate the latest schema from TiKV in a timely manner. Before v7.2.0, when TiFlash accesses table data and detects a table schema change within a database, TiFlash needs to replicate the schemas of all tables in this database again, including those tables without TiFlash replicas. As a result, in a database with a large number of tables, even if you only need to read data from a single table using TiFlash, you might experience significant latency to wait for TiFlash to complete the schema replication of all tables.

>     In v7.2.0, TiFlash optimizes the schema replication mechanism and supports only replicating schemas of tables with TiFlash replicas. When a schema change is detected for a table with TiFlash replicas, TiFlash only replicates schema of that table, which reduces the latency of schema replication of TiFlash. This optimization is automatically applied and does not require any manual configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
    In v7.2.0, TiFlash optimizes the schema replication mechanism and supports only replicating schemas of tables with TiFlash replicas. When a schema change is detected for a table with TiFlash replicas, TiFlash only replicates the schema of that table, which reduces the latency of schema replication of TiFlash and minimizes the impact of DDL operations on TiFlash data replication. This optimization is automatically applied and does not require any manual configuration.
```

* Improve the performance of statistics collection [#44725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44725) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1352-->

    TiDB v7.2.0 optimizes the statistics collection strategy, skipping some of the duplicate information and information that is of little value to the optimizer. The overall speed of statistics collection has been improved by 30%. This improvement allows TiDB to update the statistics of the database in a more timely manner, making the generated execution plans more accurate, thus improving the overall database performance.

>     By default, statistics collection skips the columns of the `json`, `blob`, `mediumblob`, and `longblob` types. You can modify the default behavior by setting the [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) system variable. TiDB supports skipping the `JSON`, `BLOB`, and `TEXT` types and their subtypes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    By default, statistics collection skips the columns of the `JSON`, `BLOB`, `MEDIUMBLOB`, and `LONGBLOB` types. You can modify the default behavior by setting the [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) system variable. TiDB supports skipping the `JSON`, `BLOB`, and `TEXT` types and their subtypes.
```

    Each controllable behavior is described by a GitHub issue corresponding to the fix number. All controllable behaviors are listed in [Optimizer Fix Controls](/optimizer-fix-controls.md). You can set a target value for one or more behaviors by setting the [`tidb_opt_fix_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_fix_control-new-in-v710) system variable to achieve behavior control.

    The Optimizer Fix Controls mechanism helps you control the TiDB optimizer at a granular level. It provides a new means of fixing performance issues caused by the upgrade process and improves the stability of TiDB.

    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

### SQL

* Support the `CHECK` constraints [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->

>     Starting from v7.2.0, you can use `CHECK` constraints to restrict the values of one or more columns in a table to meet your specified conditions. When a `CHECK` constraint is added to a table, TiDB checks whether the constraint is satisfied before inserting or updating data in the table. Only the data that satisfies the constraint can be written.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.2.0, you can use `CHECK` constraints to restrict the values of one or more columns in a table to meet your specified conditions. When a `CHECK` constraint is added to a table, TiDB checks whether the constraint is satisfied before inserting or updating data in the table. Only the data that satisfies the constraint can be written.
 
     This feature is disabled by default. You can set the [`tidb_enable_check_constraint`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_check_constraint-new-in-v720) system variable to `ON` to enable it.
```

| [`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared execution plan cache is enabled. |
| [`tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery`](/system-variables.md#tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery-new-in-v610) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the optimizer removes the `ORDER BY` clause in a subquery. |
| [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected. |

> | [`tidb_enable_check_constraint`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_check_constraint-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls whether to enabled `CHECK` constraints. The default value is `OFF`, which means this feature is disabled. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_check_constraint`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_check_constraint-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable `CHECK` constraints. The default value is `OFF`, which means this feature is disabled. |
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>Query timeout can now be managed with more granularity, such that different classifications of queries can have different behavior. Queries meeting the threshold can be configurably deprioritized or killed. In the future, this feature will allow for measuring queries by consumption in addition to wall clock time.

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Query timeout can now be managed with more granularity, such that different classifications of queries can have different behavior. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or killed.
```

Author: remove "In the future, this feature will allow for measuring queries by consumption in addition to wall clock time." because it is risky to make future promises. For these future plans, we can add them to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/tidb-roadmap.

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720">pipeline execution model</a> (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/system-variables#tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model-new-in-v720">pipeline execution model</a> (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.
> This is currently depended on by TiDB Serverless analytical capabilities.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>

>     <td>Support a new SQL statement, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a>, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Support a new SQL statement, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a>, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>
```

   <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces a new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO`, which integrates physical import capabilities of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 directly into TiDB.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>DDL operations such as adding indexes can consume a lot of resources and affect online traffic. As homage to traditional schema change tools like pt-osc and gh-ost, TiDB now natively supports suspending multiple background jobs at once. This feature lets you conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic, without the need to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>DDL operations such as adding indexes can consume a lot of resources and affect online traffic. Inspired by traditional schema change tools like pt-osc and gh-ost, TiDB now natively supports suspending multiple background jobs at once. This feature lets you conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic, without the need to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>
```

## 废弃功能

- note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Improvements

<!--**tw@ran-huang**-->

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the logic of constructing index scan range so that it supports converting complex conditions into index scan range [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
    - Add new monitoring metrics `Stale Read OPS` and `Stale Read Traffic` [#43325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43325) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - When the retry leader of stale read encounters a lock, TiDB forcibly retries with the leader after resolving the lock, which avoids unnecessary overhead [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Use estimated time to calculate stale read ts and reduce the overhead of stale read [#44215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44215) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Add logs and system variables for long-running transactions [#41471](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41471) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

>     - Support connecting to TiDB through MySQL compression protocols by adding the `--compress` option to the connection command, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low network quality and saves bandwidth costs [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Support connecting to TiDB through MySQL compression protocols by adding the `--compress` option to the connection command, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low network quality and saves bandwidth costs [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

The `--compress` option for the MySQL Client has been deprecated and has been replaced with `--compression-algorithms=<algorithm>`.  See also https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/connection-compression-control.html

Note that TiDB supports both `zlib` and `zstd` compression.

As the way to enable compression differs per programming language and database driver, maybe best to not name the exact option. (e.g. in PHP it is `PDO::MYSQL_ATTR_COMPRESS`)

```suggestion
    - Support connecting to TiDB through the compressed MySQL protocol, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low bandwidth networks and saves bandwidth costs. This supports both `zlib` and `zstd` based compression. [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

>     - Recognize `utf8` and `utf8bm3` as the legacy three-byte character set encodings [#26226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26226) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Recognize both `utf8` and `utf8bm3` as the legacy three-byte UTF-8 character set encodings [#26226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26226) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

We could add something like "This helps with migrating tables with legacy UTF-8 encodings from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB".

Reviewer 2: Good suggestion. I have added it to your comment.

    - Support using `:=` for assignment in `UPDATE` statements [#44751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44751) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

<!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

+ TiKV

>     - Support configuring the retry interval of PD connections in scenarios such as request failures using `pd.retry-interval` [#14964](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14964) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support configuring the retry interval of PD connections in scenarios such as connection request failures using `pd.retry-interval` [#14964](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14964) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    - Optimize the resource control scheduling algorithm by incorporating the global resource usage [#14604](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14604) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Use gzip compression for `check_leader` requests to reduce traffic [#14553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14553) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Add related metrics for `check_leader` requests [#14658](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14658) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

>     - Provide the detailed time information during TiKV handling write commands [#12362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12362) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Provide detailed time information during TiKV handling write commands [#12362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12362) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - Enable the bucket splitting by default to mitigate hotspot issues in multi-Region scenarios [#6433](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6433) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Support access to Azure Blob Storage by shared access signature (SAS) [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Optimize the structure of the directory where data files are stored when a DDL occurs in the scenario of replication to an object storage service [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support the OAUTHBEARER authentication in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Add the option of outputting only the handle keys for the `DELETE` operation in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - Support using MySQL 8.0 to compress binlogs [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Support reading compressed binlogs in MySQL 8.0 as a data source for incremental replication [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

    (dup)- Fix the issue that the `min, max` query result is incorrect [#43805](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43805) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` statement cannot display the TxnStart of the transaction of the statement with a long subquery time [#40851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40851) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that the stale read global optimization does not take effect due to the lack of `TxnScope` in Coprocessor tasks [#43365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43365) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that follower read does not handle flashback errors before retrying, which causes query errors [#43673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43673) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    <!--**tw@qiancai**-->
    - Fix the issue that data and indexes are inconsistent when the `ON UPDATE` statement does not correctly update the primary key [#44565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44565) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

>     - Modify the upper limit of the `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()` function to `3001-01-19 03:14:07.999999 UTC` to be consistent with that of MySQL 8.0.28 or later [#43987](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43987) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Modify the upper limit of the `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()` function to `3001-01-19 03:14:07.999999 UTC` to be consistent with that of MySQL 8.0.28 or later versions [#43987](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43987) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that adding an index fails in the ingest mode [#44137](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44137) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that canceling a DDL task in the rollback state causes errors in related metadata [#44143](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44143) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that using `memTracker` with cursor fetch causes memory leaks [#44254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44254) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that deleting a database causes slow GC progress [#33069](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33069) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that dropping a database causes slow GC progress [#33069](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33069) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB returns an error when the corresponding rows in partitioned tables cannot be found in the probe phase of index join [#43686](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43686) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that there is no warning when using `SUBPARTITION` to create partitioned tables [#41198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41198) [#41200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41200) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     - Fix the issue when a query is killed because it exceeds `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME`, the returned error message is inconsistent with that of MySQL [#43031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43031) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when a query is killed because it exceeds `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME`, the returned error message is inconsistent with that of MySQL [#43031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43031) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `LEADING` hint does not support querying block aliases [#44645](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44645) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Modify the return type of the `LAST_INSERT_ID()` function from VARCHAR to LONGLONG to be consistent with that of MySQL [#44574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44574) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

>     - Fix the issue that the push-down of filtering conditions causes a wrong result when a common table expression (CTE) is referenced multiple times by non-correlated subqueries [#44051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44051) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that incorrect results might be returned when using a common table expression (CTE) in statements with non-correlated subqueries [#44051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44051) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

>     - Fix the issue that outer join reorder handles conditions incorrectly and causes the wrong results [#44314](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44314) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that Join Reorder might cause incorrect outer join results [#44314](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44314) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `PREPARE stmt FROM "ANALYZE TABLE xxx"` can be killed by `tidb_mem_quota_query` [#44320](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44320) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `PREPARE stmt FROM "ANALYZE TABLE xxx"` might be killed by `tidb_mem_quota_query` [#44320](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44320) @[chrysan](https://github.com/chrysan)
```

<!--**tw@Oreoxmt**-->

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue that the transaction returns an incorrect value when TiKV handles stale pessimistic lock conflicts [#13298](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13298) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

>     - Fix the issue that in-memory pessimistic lock might cause flashback failure and data inconsistency [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that in-memory pessimistic lock might cause flashback failures and data inconsistency [#13303](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13303) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
```

    - Fix the issue that the fair lock might be incorrect when TiKV handles stale requests [#13298](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13298) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

>     - Fix the issue that autocommit and point get replica read might break linearizability [#14715](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14715) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `autocommit` and `point get replica read` might break linearizability [#14715](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14715) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

        - Fix the issue that `resolved lock timeout` is falsely reported in some cases [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when restoring statistics information [#44490](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44490) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

    + TiCDC <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Fix the issue that Resolved TS does not advance properly in some cases [#8963](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8963) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the `UPDATE` operation cannot output old values when the Avro or CSV protocol is used [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue of excessive downstream pressure caused by reading downstream metadata too frequently when replicating data to Kafka [#8959](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8959) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>         - Fix the issue of too many downstream logs caused by frequently setting the downstream BDR-related variables when replicating data to TiDB or MySQL [#9180](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9180) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of too many downstream logs caused by frequently setting the downstream bidirectional replication-related variables when replicating data to TiDB or MySQL [#9180](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9180) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - Fix the issue that the PD node crashing causes the TiCDC node to restart [#8868](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8868) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC cannot create a changefeed with a downstream KOP [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC cannot create a changefeed with a downstream Kafka-on-Pulsar [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    <td>You can now manage query timeout with more granularity, allowing for different behaviors based on query classifications. Queries meeting your specified threshold can be deprioritized or terminated.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/tiflash-pipeline-model">pipeline execution model</a> (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td>Support a new SQL statement, <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a>, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>
   <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces a new SQL statement <code>IMPORT INTO</code>, which integrates physical import mode of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 directly into TiDB.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> (experimental)</td>

>     <td>This new capability lets you temporarily suspend resource-intensive DDL operations, such as index creation, to conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic. Seamlessly resume these operations when ready, without the need to cancel and restart. Enhance resource utilization, improve user experience, and streamline schema changes with DDL pause and resume.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>This new capability lets you temporarily suspend resource-intensive DDL operations, such as index creation, to conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic. You can seamlessly resume these operations when ready, without the need to cancel and restart. This feature enhances resource utilization, improves user experience, and streamlines schema changes.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/optimizer-fix-controls.md).

* Lightweight statistics initialization becomes generally available (GA) [#42160](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42160) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw@qiancai** <!--1464-->

    Starting from v7.2.0, the lightweight statistics initialization feature becomes GA. Lightweight statistics initialization can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart.

    For newly created clusters of v7.2.0 or later versions, TiDB loads lightweight statistics by default during TiDB startup and will wait for the loading to finish before providing services. For clusters upgraded from earlier versions, you can set the TiDB configuration items [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) and [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md##load-statistics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#load-statistics).
```

### SQL

* Support the `CHECK` constraints [#41711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41711) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) **tw@qiancai** <!--1404-->

    Starting from v7.2.0, you can use `CHECK` constraints to restrict the values of one or more columns in a table to meet your specified conditions. When a `CHECK` constraint is added to a table, TiDB checks whether the constraint is satisfied before inserting or updating data in the table. Only the data that satisfies the constraint can be written.

     This feature is disabled by default. You can set the [`tidb_enable_check_constraint`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_check_constraint-new-in-v720) system variable to `ON` to enable it.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/constraints.md#check-constraints).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/constraints.md#check).
```

### DB operations

* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (experimental) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

    Before TiDB v7.2.0, when a DDL job encounters a business peak during execution, you can only manually cancel the DDL job to reduce its impact on the business. In v7.2.0, TiDB introduces pause and resume operations for DDL jobs. These operations let you pause DDL jobs during a peak and resume them after the peak ends, thus avoiding impact on your application workloads.

    For example, you can pause and resume multiple DDL jobs using `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` or `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS`:

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

> ### Observability
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    With this feature, you can directly import source files with the Latin-1 character set into TiDB using TiDB Lightning. Before v7.2.0, importing such files requires your additional preprocessing or conversion. Starting from v7.2.0, you only need to specify `character-set = "latin1"` when configuring the TiDB Lightning import task. Then, TiDB Lightning automatically handles the character set conversion during the import process to ensure data integrity and accuracy.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.1.0 to the current version (v7.2.0). If you are upgrading from v7.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`last_insert_id`](/system-variables.md#last_insert_id-new-in-v530) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from  `9223372036854775807` to `18446744073709551615` to be consistent with that of MySQL. |
> | [`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared plan cache is enabled. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`last_insert_id`](/system-variables.md#last_insert_id-new-in-v530) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `9223372036854775807` to `18446744073709551615` to be consistent with that of MySQL. |
| [`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared execution plan cache is enabled. |
```

| [`tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery`](/system-variables.md#tidb_remove_orderby_in_subquery-new-in-v610) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, meaning that the optimizer removes the `ORDER BY` clause in a subquery. |

> |  [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720)      | Newly added |  Controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected.   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Newly added | Controls which types of columns are skipped for statistics collection when executing the `ANALYZE` command to collect statistics. The variable is only applicable for [`tidb_analyze_version = 2`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510). When using the syntax of `ANALYZE TABLE t COLUMNS c1, ..., cn`, if the type of a specified column is included in `tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`, the statistics of this column will not be collected. |
```

---
title: TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.2.0.
---

# TiDB 7.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.2/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.2.0#version-list)

7.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Runaway queries managed by Resource Groups (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource groups supports manage runaway queries (experimental)</td>
```

    <td>Query timeouts exist on a per-TiKV node basis but now Resoure Groups can manage queries by global parallel execution time and either deprioritize or kill them. Allowing operators to configure this timeout and what do with the queries at a Resource Group level, gives them much more control over the impact unexected large queries may have on the cluster.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash support for pipeline execution model (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiFlash supports a pipeline execution model to optimize thread resource control.

> This is currently depended on by TiDB Serverless analytical capabilities.</td>

Reviewer 5: @qiancai The analytical queries in TiDB Serverless using TiFlash depend on this feature already. In other words, it's already used in Serverless, but it's new in on-premise (kernel). We can remove that if you want. No worries. Go ahead make the change you want.

> This is currently depended on by TiDB Serverless analytical capabilities.</td>

Author: Got that. If so, we can remove it to avoid confusion since most readers of this release notes is for TiDB Self-Hosted.

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>

>     <td>Support new SQL statement, "IMPORT INTO", to enable import from the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Support a new SQL statement, `IMPORT INTO`, to enable data import using the TiDB service, itself (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of Lightning jobs, we are introducing the new SQL statement "IMPORT INTO" which integrates Lightning's phyiscal import capabilities, including remote import from S3, directly into TiDB..</td>

Author: ```suggestion
   <td>To simplify the deployment and maintenance of TiDB Lightning, TiDB introduces the new SQL statement `IMPORT INTO`, which integrates physical import capabilities of TiDB Lightning, including remote import from Amazon S3 directly into TiDB.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>DDL supports pause/resume</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>DDL supports pause and resume operations (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>Adding indexes can consume a lot of resources and affect online traffic. As homage to traditional schema change tools (i.e., pt-osc and gh-ost) TiDB now natively supports suspending any number of these background jobs at once, freeing up needed resources while avoiding have to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>DDL operations such as adding indexes can consume a lot of resources and affect online traffic. As homage to traditional schema change tools like pt-osc and gh-ost, TiDB now natively supports suspending multiple background jobs at once. This feature lets you conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic, without the need to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>
```

>     <td>DDL operations such as adding indexes can consume a lot of resources and affect online traffic. As homage to traditional schema change tools like pt-osc and gh-ost, TiDB now natively supports suspending multiple background jobs at once. This feature lets you conserve resources and minimize the impact on online traffic, without the need to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>

Author: @samhld , For "As homage to", do we have any alternative way to express the same meaning?

Reviewer 5: @qiancai the former. "Inspired by".

Author: @benmaoer PTAL

Reviewer 4: Introducing the DDL Pause and Resume feature! With this new capability, users can now temporarily suspend resource-intensive DDL operations, such as index creation, to conserve resources and minimize impact on online traffic. Seamlessly resume these operations when ready, without the need to cancel and restart. Enhance resource utilization, improve user experience, and streamline schema changes with DDL Pause and Resume.

| TiCDC | [`sink.protocol`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `"open-protocol"` when the downstream is Kafka. Specifies the protocol format used for encoding messages. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.delete-only-output-handle-key-columns`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the output of DELETE events. This parameter is valid only for canal-json and open-protocol protocols. The default value is `false`, which means outputting all columns. When you set it to true, only primary key columns or unique index columns are output. |

## 废弃功能

- note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Improvements

> + TiDB
> 
>     <!-- tw@ran-huang -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- tw@ran-huang -->

+ TiDB
    
```

>     - Optimize the logic of constructing index scan range so that it supports converting complex conditions into index scan range [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
>     - Add stale read-related monitoring metrics [#43325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43325) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - When the retry leader of stale read encounters a lock, TiDB forcibly retry with the leader after resolving the lock, which avoids unnecessary overhead [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - Use estimated time to calculate stale read ts and reduce the overhead of stale read [#44215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44215) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - Add logs and system variables for long running transactions [#41471](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41471) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
>     - Support connecting to TiDB through MySQL compression protocol by adding the `--compress` option to the connection command, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low network quality and saves bandwidth costs [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
>     - Recognize utf8 and utf8bm3 as the legacy three-byte character set encodings [#26226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26226) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
>     - Support using `:=` for assignment in `UPDATE` statements [#44751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44751) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the logic of constructing index scan range so that it supports converting complex conditions into index scan range [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
    - Add new monitoring metrics `Stale Read OPS` and `Stale Read Traffic` [#43325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43325) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - When the retry leader of stale read encounters a lock, TiDB forcibly retries with the leader after resolving the lock, which avoids unnecessary overhead [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Use estimated time to calculate stale read ts and reduce the overhead of stale read [#44215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44215) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Add logs and system variables for long-running transactions [#41471](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41471) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Support connecting to TiDB through MySQL compression protocols by adding the `--compress` option to the connection command, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low network quality and saves bandwidth costs [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Recognize `utf8` and `utf8bm3` as the legacy three-byte character set encodings [#26226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26226) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Support using `:=` for assignment in `UPDATE` statements [#44751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44751) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Support access to Azure Blob Storage by shared access signature (SAS) [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Optimize the structure of the directory where data files are stored when a DDL occurs in the scenario of replication to an object storage service [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support the OAUTHBEARER authentication in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Add the option of outputting only the handle keys for the `DELETE` operation in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Support using MySQL 8.0 to compress binlogs [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

    + TiDB Lightning

        <!--**tw@ran-huang**-->

>         - Optimize the retry mechanism during import to avoid errors caused by leader switching [#44478](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44478)
>         - Verify checksum throught SQL after import to improve stability of verification [#41941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41941)
>         - Optimize TiDB Lightning's OOM issues when importing wide tables [43853](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43853)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the retry mechanism during import to avoid errors caused by leader switching [#44478](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44478) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Verify checksum throught SQL after import to improve stability of verification [#41941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41941) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - Optimize TiDB Lightning's OOM issues when importing wide tables [43853](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43853) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

| TiCDC | [`sink.protocol`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `"open-protocol"` when the downstream is Kafka. Specifies the protocol format used for encoding messages. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.delete-only-output-handle-key-columns`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the output of DELETE events. This parameter is valid only for canal-json and open-protocol protocols. The default value is `false`, which means outputting all columns. When you set it to true, only primary key columns or unique index columns are output. |

## 废弃功能

- note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    <!--tw@ran-huang-->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     <!--**tw@ran-huang**-->

Author: ```suggestion
    <!--tw@ran-huang-->
```

>     - 优化构造索引扫描范围的逻辑，支持将一些复杂条件转化为索引扫描范围 [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @xuyifangreeneyes
>     - 为 stale read 新增相关监控指标 [#43325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43325) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 当 stale read retry leader 遇到 lock，resolve lock 之后强制走 leader 避免无谓开销 [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 使用估计时间计算 stale read ts，减少 stale read 开销 [#44215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44215) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 添加 long running 事务日志和系统变量 [#41471](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41471) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
>     - 支持通过 MySQL 压缩协议连接 TiDB (在连接时加上  `--compress` 选项），提升数据密集型查询在低网络质量下的性能，并节省带宽成本的开销 [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
>     - 支持将utf8和utf8mb3都识别为旧的三字节字符集编码。[#26226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26226) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
>     - 支持将 := 用于 update 语句中赋值。[#44751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44751) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the logic of constructing index scan range so that it supports converting complex conditions into index scan range [#41572](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41572) [#44389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44389) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
    - Add stale read-related monitoring metrics [#43325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43325) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - When the retry leader of stale read encounters a lock, TiDB forcibly retry with the leader after resolving the lock, which avoids unnecessary overhead [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Use estimated time to calculate stale read ts and reduce the overhead of stale read [#44215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44215) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Add logs and system variables for long running transactions [#41471](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41471) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Support connecting to TiDB through MySQL compression protocol by adding the `--compress` option to the connection command, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low network quality and saves bandwidth costs [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Recognize utf8 and utf8bm3 as the legacy three-byte character set encodings [#26226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26226) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Support using `:=` for assignment in `UPDATE` statements [#44751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44751) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Support access to Azure Blob Storage by shared access signature (SAS) [#44199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44199) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        <!--**tw@hfxsd**-->

        - Optimize the structure of the directory where data files are stored when a DDL occurs in the scenario of replication to an object storage service [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8891) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support the OAUTHBEARER authentication in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Add the option of outputting only the handle keys for the `DELETE` operation in the scenario of replication to Kafka [#9143](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9143) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Support using MySQL 8.0 to compress binlogs [#6381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6381) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

    + TiDB Lightning

        <!--**tw@ran-huang**-->

>         - 优化导入时遇到 leader 切换导致的错误的重试机制 [#44478](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44478)
>         - 导入完成后通过 SQL 的方式校验 checksum，提升检验的稳定性 [#41941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41941)
>         - 优化宽表导入下 lightning OOM 的问题 [43853](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43853)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the retry mechanism during import to avoid errors caused by leader switching [#44478](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/44478)
        - Verify checksum throught SQL after import to improve stability of verification [#41941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41941)
        - Optimize TiDB Lightning's OOM issues when importing wide tables [43853](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43853)
```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    <!--**tw@ran-huang**-->

>     - 修复关联子查询中含有 CTE 时可能出现的查询 hang 住的问题 [#36896](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36896) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - 修复某些情况下 max/min 结果出错的问题 [#43805](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43508)@[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复当 query 包含子查询时，information schema 显示中 `TxnStart` 字段为空的问题 [#40851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40851) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
>     - 修复 cop task 中 txn scope 缺失导致 stale read global optimization 不生效的问题 [#43365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43365) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 修复 follower read 未处理 flashback 错误进行重试导致查询报错的问题 [#43673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43673) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    (dup)- Fix the issue that the query with CTE causes TiDB to hang [#43749](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43749) [#36896](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36896) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    (dup)- Fix the issue that the `min, max` query result is incorrect [#43805](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43805) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` statement cannot display the TxnStart of the transaction of the statement with a long subquery time [#40851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40851) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue that the stale read global optimization does not take effect due to the lack of `TxnScope` in Coprocessor tasks [#43365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43365) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that follower read does not handle flashback errors before retrying, which causes query errors [#43673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43673) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
```

<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Resource groups supports managing runaway queries (experimental)</td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource groups support managing runaway queries (experimental)</td>
```

    - When the retry leader of stale read encounters a lock, TiDB forcibly retries with the leader after resolving the lock, which avoids unnecessary overhead [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Use estimated time to calculate stale read ts and reduce the overhead of stale read [#44215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44215) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Add logs and system variables for long-running transactions [#41471](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41471) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

>     - Support connecting to TiDB through the compressed MySQL protocol, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low bandwidth networks and saves bandwidth costs. This supports both `zlib` and `zstd` based compression. [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support connecting to TiDB through the compressed MySQL protocols, which improves the performance of data-intensive queries under low bandwidth networks and saves bandwidth costs. This supports both `zlib` and `zstd` based compression. [#22605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22605) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```
